README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">🌐 Nextcloud Server Connectivity Test</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>A simple PowerShell script to monitor the network and web availability of a Nextcloud server.</b><br><br>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-PowerShell-blue?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor?style=flat-square">
</p>

---

## 🚀 Overview

This PowerShell script continuously checks the **network reachability** and **web response** of a Nextcloud server.  
It’s perfect for quick diagnostics or uptime monitoring within your local or private cloud setup.

---

## ⚙️ Features

- ✅ **Ping Test:** Verifies if the server is reachable on the network.  
- 🌐 **Web Response Check:** Tests if the Nextcloud web interface responds (HTTP 200).  
- 🧩 **Color-Coded Output:** Easy-to-read console messages (Green = OK, Yellow = Warning, Red = Error).  
- 🔁 **Simple & Lightweight:** Ideal for administrators, IT students, and self-hosters.  

---

## 💻 How to Use

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor.git
   cd NextcloudMonitor
## 🖼️ Nextcloud Login Portal

Below is a screenshot of the actual Nextcloud instance used for testing:

![Nextcloud Login Portal](photo_2025-11-03_07-51-37.jpg)

Commit message:

Include MIT License information in README
Add license section to README with MIT License details

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">🌐 Nextcloud Server Connectivity Test</h1>

<p align="center">
  <b>A simple PowerShell script to monitor the network and web availability of a Nextcloud server.</b><br><br>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-PowerShell-blue?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor?style=flat-square">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor?style=flat-square">
</p>

---

## 🚀 Overview

This PowerShell script continuously checks the **network reachability** and **web response** of a Nextcloud server.  
It’s perfect for quick diagnostics or uptime monitoring within your local or private cloud setup.

---

## ⚙️ Features

- ✅ **Ping Test:** Verifies if the server is reachable on the network.  
- 🌐 **Web Response Check:** Tests if the Nextcloud web interface responds (HTTP 200).  
- 🧩 **Color-Coded Output:** Easy-to-read console messages (Green = OK, Yellow = Warning, Red = Error).  
- 🔁 **Simple & Lightweight:** Ideal for administrators, IT students, and self-hosters.  

---

## 💻 How to Use

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/KL2400040448/NextcloudMonitor.git
   cd NextcloudMonitor
## 🧾 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** — see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

You are free to:
- ✅ Use this project for personal or commercial purposes  
- ✏️ Modify or distribute it under the same license  
- ⭐ Credit the original author (*King, 2025*) when reusing the code  

> The software is provided *"as is"*, without warranty of any kind.  
> The author is not liable for any damages or issues caused by its use.

## 🖼️ Nextcloud Login Portal

Below is a screenshot of the actual Nextcloud instance used for testing:

![Nextcloud Login Portal](photo_2025-11-03_07-51-37.jpg)
